Narrator: Let's go ahead
and use variables
to make music in EarSketch.
I have a JavaScript script here
which starts with
the init() function,
initializing a new project
to make music in EarSketch.
And the setTempo() function
sets our tempo for the project.
I'm going to slow that down
to 100 beats per minute.
And then the finish() function
at the end, which wraps
everything up and gets
the music ready for playback.
In the middle here,
I'll define a variable.
I'll name this variable
"synth1," and I have
an assignment statement
here to assign
a particular value
to that variable.
And that value is going
to be a constant
from the EarSketch
sound browser.
So I'm going to search
for a synth pluck sound here.
Use HIPHOP_SYNTHPLUCKLEAD_005.
I'll hit the paste button
there to paste that in.
Then I'll add a semi-colon.
And so this has
assigned the sound,
HIPHOP_SYNTHPLUCKLEAD_005,
to the variable synth1.
So now that I've defined synth1
and I've assigned it that value,
I can go ahead and use
a fitmedia() function
to actually use the variable.
So I'll use the sound synth1.
I'll have this be on track 1,
starting at measure 1
and ending in measure 2.
And again, I'll add
this semi-colon at the end.
Now I can press run.
[synth melody]
So we heard one measure
of this sound stored
in the variable synth1
on track 1, from measure 1 to 2.
Now that I've defined
one variable, I can go ahead
and I can define more.
So I'll define
a second variable.
I'll call it "synth2."
And I will give this
another synth sound,
this HIPHOP_SOLOMOOGLEAD_001.
So now I've assigned the value,
HIPHOP_SOLOMOOGLEAD_001,
to the variable synth2.
And I can do the same thing
with a drum sound.
I will name my variable "drums."
And I will assign this
HIPHOP_TRAPHOP_BEAT_008
to my drums variable.
And now I can go ahead,
and I can put in a bunch
of fitmedia() calls where each
of those references
a different variable
of those three.
So I have here synth1, synth2,
synth2, synth1, synth2,
synth1, synth2, and finally
drums at the end.
You see each of these—
all the synth1s are going
on to track 1
on successive measures.
So the first one goes
from measure one to two,
the next one from two to three,
the next one, three to four.
Four to five is left empty,
and then five to six
and so on and so forth.
My drums sound
is going on track two,
and it's taking up
all of track two.
So from measure one
to measure nine,
because I want the drums
to be going on during
the entire song here.
So now I can go ahead
and press run again
and hear what I've got.
[synth hip-hop beat]
Now what if I wanted
to experiment with
a different sound for synth1?
If I wanted to change that.
What would happen
if I wanted a different
synth pluck sound?
Instead of 005, maybe 006.
Well because
I'm using variables,
I only have to change
this in one place
in the assignment statement.
So I just changed it
from 5 to 6 here,
and any place I'm using
synth1 down here,
any of these other spots
will automatically update
with the new sound.
So I can hear
what this sounds like,
see if I like it better,
or maybe I don't
like it as much.
[modified electronic
hip-hop beat]
And this ties into
a really important concept
in making music called
"iterative design."
And the notion behind
iterative design is that
you don't just kind of
put something out there
and then say you're done.
You start
with something that's okay.
And you listen to it,
and you think about
how you might be able
to make it better.
And you make some changes.
You listen to it again.
You think about how you might
be able to make it better.
You keep on experimenting,
making changes.
Sometimes it may make it worse,
and you might undo them.
Sometimes they may
make them better
and you keep them.
But you keep on doing this
over and over and over again,
until you end up with music
that's really, really awesome.
And variables are
a really important part
of making this happen
in EarSketch, because
you may have a song
where you have dozens
of different sounds
that you're using
hundreds of different times
and functions like
fitmedia() in your script.
And if you had to go
through every time you wanted
to experiment with a new sound
and find every time
you were using the old sound
and update that constant
to the new sound,
that would take you forever.
But if you use variables,
you only have to
change it in one place.
Even if you use it
a hundred or five hundred times
in your song,
it will automatically update.
As long change that
assignment statements,
everything below it will
update automatically,
whenever you've referenced
that variable.
And so it makes it
a lot easier to experiment,
to try out new things
very quickly,
to see what works,
to see what doesn't,
and to make your music
really awesome.